## Hi-Hat Design

There are several ways to do this and, of course, in my tunnel vision I've been looking at 
ways to operate the "hats" with a "pedal." (eg, use a solenoid to pull the pedal shaft) 
It's occurred to me this week that there's another way, 3 hih-hat sets, 3 clutches and a 
single shaft. Set the bottom pair closed, the middle pair loosely touching edges (half 
closed) and the top pair (a single one, really) as open.

There are advantages and disadvantages to both ways, of course.

*Using a standard hi-hat stand*, with a solenoid pulling the top hat down from half closed 
for closed, another solenoid pulling the bottom hat down for fully open while a third 
solenoid operates the beater will have the most natural playing sound. Coding the 
motherboard to operate the hi-hat position before operating the beater will create the 
sound we know. However, this is a complex mechanism, requiring a pair of high thrust 
solenoids to operate the cymbals. The operator solenoids I'm using are four times the 
price of the beater solenoids. Also, as they have to hold position until after the beater, 
hitting 12v solenoids with 24v for extended periods for each operation will bring them to 
close, or over, safe duty cycle, meaning they'll need a 12v supply.

*Having 2 hi-hat pairs and a single hi-hat* for closed, half open and open, respectively, 
greatly simplfies the mechanism and only requires three beater solenoids, however, hi-hat 
cymbals are not cheap. Also, to get a good transition between open and closed or half open 
and closed will require a damping mechanism that is operated when the beaters for open and 
half open are not operated. 

Because space is limited in my studio, I'm thinking of opting for the latter option, as the 
kit is going to be assembled onto a small, wheeled trolley and I can make a sturdy corner 
bracket to hold a simple riser shaft for the 3 hi-hat sets, taking the hi-hats above the 
drums and keeping the system within a tighter footprint than a human played kit. All the 
same, this is definitely going to cost more than adding solenoids to my existing hi-hat 
stand and the damping mech for the open hats adds some of the complexity I was trying to 
save. This latter consideration also adds to the already higher cost. Maybe that won't be 
as necessary in practice as I imagine it is in theory, so I'll build it without damping and 
look at how to add that in if needed.

To this end, I might still work on both designs and see which sounds best. Probably the 
standard method first as I've already sourced parts for that.

Also, because my aim is to use a retro-styled drum machine, which only has open or closed 
hi-hat tracks, I'll only have a single closing solenoid to pull the hat closed. I suspect 
this may be the best way to do this, the more I think about the mechanical aspects of this 
project.